---
layout: post  
title:  疫情下的个人思考 
featured-img: 3月/2020-03-01 
summary: 最近关于疫情的一些个人感想。
categories: 英语写作
---


Yesterday I felt bad and had a headache. I was afraid of infected with the coronavirus. Now, the situation in Japan is getting worse and worse. More and more people put on a mask but mask has also been out of stock for a long time. In normal life, it seems everything is good but it isn't. I can't help thinking again and again if there were no information blocking at first, whether the disaster could be avoided. Because it seems there are so many things have to consider and the less serious coronavirus maybe not the first priority.

I feel it also like other things in life. We can't put something which doesn't seem urgent on first. It may make sense but why it causes today's situation? To do the important and right thing is important and right, but recognizing them is difficult. When we define what is important and right, we should be careful. I can't define what is important and the right thing is. If you want to know more, you can read「The Republic」. I think it can inspire you. 

Although I can't define what important and right thing is, I also want to say the definition in my mind now. When Japan has enough masks, I have no idea I need to buy more masks to avoid one day I have nothing to use. It seems an easy speculatiion, but I don't do it well. I suppose if we look back, we can see many ways to avoid disaster breaking, but if we look future we see the uncertainty. When the tsunami occurs, you can't just do something after seeing it. You have to do it at the normal time. So I think it is meaningless to just criticism the problem. This time it seems the problem is only the people who eat wild animals. Of course they are wrong, but they aren't the source. China has many other man-made and malicious issues that I can't talk about here. Most of the time we are a drop of water in the sea, we are a bird under the sky.

I am not good at political so I want to talk about some small things like a mask. If I do nothing wrong but just can't buy more masks in advance. I have no need to blame myself. Also I have no position to blame other people as well. 

Yang has said to me if we all just buy the appropriate mask, everyone can put on a mask. But there is less trust between strangers, especially in an urgent time. In intimacy, we can do this, we can trust each other and put our interest, not personal on first. I totally agreed with Yang, but both of us know it is difficult in reality.  The future is unknown, we want to make it safer. At this time, the worry of the future makes the present worse.

To do right things is risky and difficult. But it is meaningful. If one day I can buy more masks, I just buy one box but not as much as I can. It is sad I can't do more things, but I will do small things within my ability. 

I heard Ren Ning's latest podcast in the morning. He talks about whether Li Wenliang is a hero. He said you can't find a corresponding concept in the dictionary to prove Mr. Li is a hero. But why so many people think he is a hero? He thinks it because Mr. Li is like ourselves who are better than usual. We aren't so brave that can stand up and resist oppression. But we also want to do something we can do, and become braver than we are now. It likes new heroes in the modern era. I also think Mr. Li is a hero. 「**Education is not the filling of a pail but the lighting of a fire.**」. And I suppose fire can light up other fires. Thank for my fire, Li Wenliang. I will never forget him and this spirit in my all life.

Today when I go to the tram station with a bad mood, I saw a student with a blind stick. The moment I see her, I feel so sad that I almost cried. During this special period, I feel sadness has its shape, the real shape. But when I saw her, I know the sadness always has a shape for her. I can't do anything for her, I just a passerby. But if my blessing has a little effect, I blessed the girl sincerely.